

So you wanna be a dealer...

The Business of Marijuana

By Ivan G.

Table of Contents

About Me

Disclaimer

The Bu$iness of Marijuana

Getting Started – Finding Clients

Pricing & Sales

Marijuana Miscellaneous

Edibles

Basic Dealing Rules

Methods of Marijuana Use

Conclusion

About Me

I have been exposed to, and involved with, the business of marijuana for over 15 years now. During that time, I've met countless dealers and growers, a few of which I have gotten to know quite well. After years of educating myself (through interviews, research and observation of individual practices), I became a dealer myself, working in multiple provinces over about a four-year time span. I also obtained my medical marijuana license, which has since given me access to knowledge I wouldn't have had otherwise, and allowed me to meet legal dealers, compassion club owners and other professionals in the business. For obvious reasons, it has been necessary for me to use a pseudonym.

Disclaimer

Please note that this book applies mainly to the North American market. While I have taken care to provide you the most accurate, helpful and up-to-date information possible, I accept no responsibility for any outcome of choices made as a result of reading this book. The reader is urged to exercise their own judgment at all times in deciding how to act. Discretion and vigilance in all matters of business are strongly advised. This book is for entertainment purposes only.

The Bu$iness of Marijuana

Know Your Product

Like any other business, a vital part to making it a profitable one is knowing your product. While this may sound like a no-brainer, it is frequently over-looked fact in marijuana dealing.

If you take the time to educate yourself (and in turn, educate your clients), not only will you stand apart from other dealers but your clients will appreciate you for it. This is by far the most reliable way to gain a loyal following of repeat clients. It is also the most effective way to avoid a bad reputation or worse, a jail sentence.

People smoke weed for a whole variety of reasons. Best to know what strains of weed tend to produce what kind of results. That way, you can be more confident that you are giving your clients what they want. If someone comes to you hoping to find something that will relax them or help them sleep at night, and you unknowingly sell them something that will stimulate their nervous system, they have every reason to complain, and will be much more inclined to look for another dealer the next time they buy. Worse, people who do not trust your judgment (or intentions) are more likely to put you at risk of being scrutinized by law authorities. You do not want an unhappy client.

The bottom line? The more you know what you are doing, the more money you will make and the more you will protect your own self interests. Learn about different strains and potencies, and how they tend to affect the brain. Ask everyone who smokes their chosen weed and find out what it is like, what a "bad trip" means to them, any issues they have had and what their motivation is for getting high. Find out about different growing practices, and why organic matters to some people and not to others. There is a great deal you can educate yourself on just by asking a lot of questions, and being observant.

The Strains

There are two primary types of marijuana you should know about: Indica and Sativa. The general characteristics of each are as follows:

Sativa:

The effects of Sativa marijuana are mostly cerebral. For some people, they can be quite stimulating, or offer that quality of "mind expansion". In others they induce a feeling of optimism and well-being, and provide a good measure of pain relief. A few pure Sativas are very high in THC content. They are known to have a quite spacey, or hallucinogenic, effect. Sativas are a good choice for daytime smoking.

Indica:

The Indica highs are most often described as a pleasant body buzz. Indicas are great for relaxation, anxiety or stress relief, and for an overall sense of calm and serenity. They are also very effective for overall physical pain relief, and often used in the treatment of insomnia. They are the late evening choice of many smokers as an all-night sleep aid. A few pure Indica strains are very potent in THC, and will cause the "couch-lock" effect, enabling the smoker to simply sit still and enjoy the experience of the smoke.

Summary:

The majority of strains are hybrids of both Indica and Sativa. The more you know your product, the better equipped you are to provide an informed opinion on a client's options, and to make recommendations based on their needs. Informed dealers make more money, demonstrate good business ethics, and earn a loyal clientele who will look out for the interests of their supplier as well as their own.

Clientele

Before you set about building a clientele, you should first ask yourself what kind of clients you want. There are high maintenance clients and there are low maintenance clients; clients that can put you at risk of a jail sentence and clients who will watch your back. There are also demographics to consider, as well as literally hundreds of different motivations people have for why they want to get high in the first place.

Who to Deal With:

The worst mistake anyone can make in starting out is to grab any sort of client just to get the money rolling in. There is no quicker way to make your life miserable than to do business with shady or unstable people. Use discretion. Be cautious. Trust your instincts. If something doesn't feel right about a situation, get yourself out of it as quickly as possible. You don't owe anyone an explanation.

Using common sense in this business is key to survival. Dealing with younger high school kids, and in some cases, college and university students, is a bad idea all around. Not only is the law much harsher on dealers who sell to children, you also risk taking on their parents. Kids have boundary issues, hormonal challenges, emotional problems and big mouths. They also lack discretion. Additionally, their source of income is often inconsistent, or in some cases, non-existent, which can pose real problems for you. Best to stick with people 25 and older, generally speaking.

People with real jobs and a family are by far the best demographic to find clients in. Normal working class folk are the safest. They have stable lives, their own children to think about, and a home they want to protect. They care about getting caught and will go out of their way to exercise discretion with their smoking habits. They often smoke pot the way a person might have a beer after a hard day's work. They tend to be low key, and are much less likely to appear sketchy or shady to nosy neighbors or do-gooders. They also tend to have disposable income, which means larger purchases from you.

Getting Started – Finding Clients

Mine Your Resources:

If you are starting out in the business cold, there are several sources from which you might find clients that could pose little or no risk. The most obvious one is friends, and friends of friends. Ask your pals about people they know who might benefit from knowing about you. In some cases, they may already have a dealer but would appreciate having another option (for example, if their regular dealer is out of town or low on supply). Sometimes people do business with someone out of convenience or a lack of other choices. Don't dismiss any possible avenues for referrals. Draw on your allies to help get the word out that you are now in the business. People switch dealers all the time.

The same applies to colleagues. Talk to anyone at work you trust – but obviously, it pays to be smart!

If you are a college student, campus itself can offer a dream location to meet fellow potheads. But be careful. It's always wise to make a few friends first; find out who you can trust. You should also find out about pro marijuana rallies and marches, and make new contacts there. Getting to know folks at a local 420 shop doesn't hurt, either. If they have a social area, make it a habit to stop by regularly. You can even try posting a Craigslist ad looking for 420 friends.

Building Your Clientele:

It is always better to risk losing a good client to avoid getting caught than it is to risk getting caught to gain a new client. If you are not sure about someone, turn them away. Their response to your behavior will offer useful information. If they are respectful of your boundaries, that is a good sign. If you hear of them again through a trusted acquaintance at a later date, you always have the option of changing your mind.

Referrals:

The general protocol is this: it is YOUR responsibility to inform any clients you take on that they cannot give out your number without explicit permission from you. If you neglect to do this, and something goes wrong because your contact information was shared haphazardly, you have no one to blame but yourself. Assuming that people will behave appropriately is just plain stupid.

If you are approached with a new client request, try to find out as much information about them as possible. Do they work? What is their association to your existing client? Are they experimenting, or are they a regular pot smoker? Have they dealt with anyone else in the past, and if so, why are they looking for someone new? There are not necessarily right or wrong answers to these questions. But information is power, and sometimes getting answers to these questions will lead to more relevant questions you hadn't thought of before. Consider it all part of "screening" a potential new client. Anyone not willing to disclose this kind of information is probably not trustworthy.

That First Meeting:

The decisions you make on how or where to meet new clients are among the most important decisions you will ever make. Negotiating that first meeting is a time to pay close attention to your instincts, and watch for any warning signs in your potential client's behavior.

First and foremost: set your own terms. Don't wait for them to take the reigns. Suggest a few spots (none of them close to your residence) that you are comfortable meeting them in. Remember that a lot of public locations now have hidden cameras, so unless you have previously scouted the place in question, it's best to avoid it. You also want to avoid anywhere that is so private you set yourself up for being robbed or worse, assaulted. A bench in a public park is an ideal place to start, for example.

The other factor to consider is the importance of setting boundaries in order to assess client behavior. If your meeting is for 2pm, let them know how long you will wait before leaving if they are late (5 minutes? 20?) Ask them if they will be alone or have someone else with them. Get a cell number for them if at all possible. Listen carefully to their replies. Are they respectful? Discreet? Present?

When you finally meet your new person, try to find a balance between acting casually and behaving discreetly. Again, it's always better to assume control right at the get go. If they pull out a wad of cash in full view of other people, let them know that is not acceptable. Be polite, low key, but firm. Watch how they respond to your vigilance. Are they aware of their environment? Do they take care in keeping their voice low, without drawing attention? Are they professional?

Sometimes a new client can be a "good egg" but have little to no experience in protocol. If you get a good vibe from someone, but they make mistakes, it is no reason to reject them as a regular client. It is entirely possible they are simply unaware of the implications of their actions. Set boundaries, tell them what you expect, and explain why these things are important. If your intuition is right, they will learn fast, and appreciate your efforts.

Maintaining a Good, Safe Client Base

Location, Location:

Once you decide it is safe enough to take someone on as a regular client, it is obviously preferable to meet in as private a location as possible. The ideal place to do so is in your car, if you have one. A second choice might be the client's car or, if they don't have one, in their home. Once you get to know them well, you can perhaps invite them to yours. Whatever you decide, it is always good, over time, to mix it up once in a while. And you definitely don't want regular traffic coming in and out of your apartment.

Representing Yourself:

Once you develop a rapport with someone, inevitably people become more relaxed, and start to ask personal questions. You want to find a balance between being friendly, but not personal. Best not to reveal too much about yourself.

At the very least, be cautious about how you represent yourself. Even if dealing is your main (or only) source of income, it's probably better to keep that information to yourself. While inventing stories about yourself is a bad idea, you want to give the impression that you have other legitimate sources of income. This way, you avoid giving the message that your livelihood depends on them. In some cases, this can work against you. If a client has more than one dealer, for example, they can use that kind of knowledge to try to cut a better deal with you.Other Boundary Issues:

It is up to you to set boundaries that will keep you safe. If a well-meaning client behaves in a way you are not comfortable with, let them know without delay. Don't turn them off by flipping out – just be firm, and extend them the benefit of the doubt. Let them know what you expect, particularly when they call you on the phone. Decide on a system of "talking code", and stick to it.

Standing Apart:

The truth is that most customers have access to other sources. It pays to stand apart. If your aim is to become more than just a dealer, people will go out of their way to do business with you.

What does that look like? Well, being friendly is a good place to start. Being informed is a huge leap forward. A dealer who can educate their client on different strains has a significant advantage. The other factor to consider is what drives a client to return to the same dealer over and over again. Just like in other kinds of businesses, motivations vary widely. People do business with people they like. Customers visit stores because they like the environment. An executive goes to a bar because he wants to chat up the bartender. We even choose our hair stylists based on who we feel comfortable talking to. The more approachable you are the more clients you will attract. A good listener is gold. If someone wants to talk to you about their troubles, what have you got to lose? Twenty minutes here and there won't hurt you, and may even go a long way toward making someone's day a little brighter.

But again, maintaining some level of distance is always recommended. Don't get involved in playing therapist – just practice being a good listener.

Appearance:

While none of us like to believe it, those in positions of authority are influenced by appearances in pursuing suspect persons. Don't make it easy for them by dressing like a typical drug dealer in your neck of the woods. In fact, you might try dressing "against type" every now and again. Go for the clean cut look, or put on a suit. Buy yourself a pair of cheap glasses from the drug store that could pass for prescription eye wear to give yourself an intellectual look. Whatever. At the very least, when you are on a run don't wear marijuana paraphernalia. Make sure you are well groomed and your hygiene is looked after.

Avoiding the Fuck Buddy Rabbit Hole:

If you're a dude and you have a hot girl for a client, don't be a perv by making inappropriate comments. And think very, very carefully before hitting on them. The prospect, however tantalizing, is 9 times out of 10 a VERY BAD IDEA.

Why? If it doesn't end on good terms, you are a sitting duck. This is not the kind of business to get in to in order to meet chicks. Don't be stupid.

The other reason to avoid following your dick is that female clients are hard to get in the first place, and once you have them, they tend to be smarter and more trustworthy. If they trust you in return, you'll get referrals from their female friends, and then you're off to the races.

Pricing & Sales

It is always advisable to stick with selling the highest quality bud available. This is the only way to garner a reputation for the best product and connoisseur strains. If you've educated your clients well, anyone they share their precious herb with will be impressed when they can identify exactly what it is they are smoking. It will come back to you, in a good way.

Pricing, of course, should always reflect quality. However, the higher the quantity you sell, the lower your price should be. Selling larger quantities means less meetings and lower visibility. In the long run, it pays off.

Sales Tactics

Use What You Don't Know to Your Advantage:

If the weed you have is a good strain, and you don't know when you will be getting it again, you can use this uncertainty to your advantage. It's called "spin". Tell your clients you are limiting how much you can sell to each because you don't know when this strain will be coming around again. If you think it will sell out quickly, tell them that as well. This is a highly effective tactic. People tend to want to take advantage of limited-supply, good quality product.

But be careful about making shit up. This has a way of coming around. If you want a reliable, loyal client base made up of working class people who make an honest living, you've got to walk the walk. Anyone who finds out you swindled them, exaggerated the quality of your product or mis-led them in any way will resent you for it, stop calling, and probably try to make sure others do, as well. It's just bad business.

Sales Incentives:

You don't normally see dealers using them in this business, but there's no good reason why you can't offer sales incentives. They're worth considering when it comes to large purchases. The larger the sales you make, the fewer trips you take to clients and the less visible you are. If a small sales incentive encourages someone to buy an ounce instead of a quarter, all the better for you. Stock up with some cool looking lighters (everyone needs them) and hemp (or other specialty) rolling paper.

Marijuana Miscellaneous

Digital Scales:

It is unadvisable to deal at all in this business without a good quality digital scale. Even consumers, or anyone who smokes marijuana, should own one. For dealers, it provides an accurate read necessary to ensuring you do not over-estimate the weight of your product and lose money in the process.

It is well worth the investment to buy one that is durable, and provides the most accurate read possible (for example, showing the 3rd decimal). Visit your local 420 store and ask the clerk to give you a demonstration on how their various models work. Learn what you are paying for in more expensive brands, and if a sales person can't answer this question, either find someone who can or don't spend the money. If it's a reputable product, they should be able to stand behind it.

When you find something you like, get two. There is nothing worse than a scale breaking unexpectedly when you've got a line up of orders waiting to be filled. Having a back up is just plain common sense.

Good Quality Baggies:

This aspect of the marijuana dealing business is not given the priority it should be. Trying to cut costs by wrapping your client's weed in plastic wrap or paper just doesn't pay off, in more ways than one. First, it makes you look cheap, and that will work against you in the long run. Second, it's negligent. Product not wrapped properly is product that won't stay fresh as long, and if you are trying to position yourself as a well-informed dealer who takes care of his clients, this does not set the kind of example you want. Third, it exposes you unnecessarily. Let's face it, weed is pungent. Stuffed into a knapsack or purse it can act as a magnet for unwanted attention, and that can very easily get traced back to you.

The solution is simple, and affordable. Just go to any grocery store and buy the best medium sized glade zip lock bags you can find. You can even go one step further and find a jewelry supply store in your area that is open to the public (many only deal with retailers in the business). Jewelry supply stores have high grade zip lock bags of all sizes, starting at 2" by 2" and going up. Once you have your bags, double bag everything before completing your sale. Your clients will notice this extra bit of care, and they will appreciate you for it. Happy clients refer more clients. All around, it's worth the investment.

Storage:

The smartest way to store weed is in the refrigerator, in an air tight sealed glass jar, or Mason jar. You can find these in any kitchen supply store – you can even Google them to see where in your neighborhood they are sold. Small amounts of weed can be kept in a baggie, dropped into the jar just as it is. You should be advising all your clients to do this. Weed that stays fresher longer will act as impetus for your client to return to you for more. And good advice always generates business by encouraging referrals.

For dealers, effective storage is imperative. If you are dealing in large quantities, it is even advisable to find a separate location to store the bulk of your supply. A high end condominium with proper security would be ideal, if you can figure out a way to rent a space with a pseudo-name.

Mobile Phone:

Using your personal cell phone for dealing is, for obvious reasons, loaded with drawbacks and unnecessary risk. In this day and age, pretty much anyone can track you and look up your home address. Nor do you want a cell phone from a large company like Rogers who bill you monthly.

What you need is a pay-as-you-go, throw away phone. When visiting an outlet, if they want you to register, don't give them your real name or address. If they insist on it, go elsewhere. There are lots of companies to choose from.

Being Accessible:

Keeping an eye on your phone and answering it when it rings can offer you a huge advantage in this business. Screening calls or letting them go to voice mail is so easy to do, but you will lose clients (or sales) doing it, especially when you are first starting out. Many will just try someone else they can reach right away. Be as available as humanly possible. Even if you are in the middle of a deal, it can pay to answer the call. Take a number, let them know you'll get back to them shortly. It's much more reassuring than getting a voice mail for your clients. Messages get lost in the hustle and bustle of our fast-paced, technology-ridden lives, so a lot of people don't even bother to leave them. It's common to block call display too.

Another trick to earning customer loyalty is letting them know when you are going out of town. Many will appreciate the advance notice, and some might even return the favor by waiting patiently until you return instead of going somewhere else for their supply. You could also use this kind of situation to your advantage, by offering clients the option of "stocking up" before you leave.

Know the Law:

While the laws currently make dealing in this business illegal, it's still in your best interests to know what they are and how they work. Find out what the fines are and for what, and as a back up, make sure you have a good lawyer lined up should something go terribly wrong.

Edibles

Selling edibles offers a few perks, among them being that edibles are less risky than smokables, both for you and the client. Who is going to suspect an innocent looking brownie or cookie at a baseball game or shopping mall? They are easy to store and to carry – they don't smell, and for extra measure, you could even use a pastry like container to keep them in.

How To Make:

It's easier than you think. What you are aiming for, here, is marijuana butter, also known as canna-butter. You can pretty much add it to anything. Believe it or not, you can find instructions on making it on YouTube. There are literally dozens of videos to be found.

Once you have your canna-butter, you can use it to add to pretty much any muffin or cookie mix out there. Muffins can be wrapped individually (once they cool down) and labeled with whatever your imagination comes up with. Have fun with it! It's a great way to amuse your clients and promote yourself at the same time.

Basic Dealing Rules

1. Never give anything on credit unless you are willing to risk parting with it (ie. losing money).

2. When buying, quantity matters. The more you can take of your source's hands, the cheaper it will be. That translates into money in your pocket.

3. Never reveal your source of marijuana. Ever.

4. Never provide another dealer's contact information without their explicit permission. If a client is desperate and you can't help them, you always have the option of taking their phone number and offering to give it to someone you know. Just be sure to tell them you can't promise anything, and that this favor you are doing them is a one-shot-deal.

5. When going to meet a client, don't carry any more cash (or supply) on you than absolutely necessary.

6. When going to meet a client, don't wear expensive jewelry (a watch) or clothing because you could get robbed. If things go wrong and you get arrested, chances are the authorities won't return these items to you.

7. Don't buy or sell to kids. Period.

8. Always use an alias if you can.

9. When someone pays you, count the money on the spot. People make mistakes all the time, so this basic precaution can avoid embarrassing moments later. Count the money in full view of your client. Not only do you make sure you are not unintentionally short-changed, but you offer them reassurance that you won't be coming back to them later claiming that they owe you money.

10. When doing a deal, make eye contact with your client. This simple act is one of the most overlooked practices in the business. It dissuades criminals and thieves. Even a long-trusted client could turn on you one day. It's a crappy world out there.

11. Don't ever meet a client while you're stoned. You might draw attention from unwanted sources with glassy eyes or clothes that smell of weed. And even if you don't, when you're high you can make mistakes (counting money, for example) and make yourself more vulnerable to being taken advantage of.

Methods of Marijuana Use

Smoking/Inhaling:

It has long been thought that holding smoke in your lungs will increase the effects, and that the simple act of inhaling and exhaling is a waste of product. Surprisingly, recent research shows just the opposite.

Smoke in your lungs is not good for them – we all know that. Over the years, tar and chemicals build up and take their toll. Holding smoke in your lungs is worse. Don't do it. Unless you want to lower your resistance to infection, or aggravate one that might already be brewing down there.

So the general rule is, the fewer the puffs the better. The more potent your weed is, the fewer puffs you will need to take, anyway. Studies done in Australia revealed that 95% of the THC in cannabis is absorbed in the first few seconds of inhaling. When smoking, shallow breath is fine.

Pros: Smoking allows you to more easily control your dosage, and how high you get as a result. It's also the quickest method of getting the drug into your blood stream.

Cons: It's bad for your lungs. It's also less effective for pain relief than eating it is.

Joints:

Generally speaking, a loose, fat joint is preferable to a thin one because the temperature of the smoke is lower in a thick joint. (A lower temperature is less toxic to the lungs, and provides a more relaxing effect). Also, mixing it with tobacco tends to diminish the effects of THC, and we all know tobacco isn't good for us. Avoid flavored rolling papers as they are often infused with chemicals.

Pipes and Bongs:

In today's market, designs of pipes and bongs are getting more and more elaborate, as are the claims that come with them. Some purport to offer a cooler smoke, but they are not at all safe or efficient to use. Do your research before investing in this option. Avoid wood, aluminum or plastic materials. Use glass, stainless steel or brass pipes and bongs.

Water Pipes:

Recent research suggests that this method of smoking cannabis is the most toxic, because the water absorbs so much of the THC content that more smoking is necessary to get the desired result. This means it is also less cost effective.

Vaporization:

Vaporizers are, hands down, the way to go in smoking cannabis. The process releases the THC content as a vapor, which the inhaler takes in without the toxic smoke. This means less exposure to burning for the lungs and throat, and a more economical use of your precious resource. Sources suggest that converting to this method of ingesting your weed can make your supply last up to four times longer.

A NOTE OF CAUTION: correct use of vaporizers is important. Overheating defeats the purpose of using one. Make sure you find someone who can show you properly how to use it.

Edibles:

If you are willing to sacrifice the immediacy of the high that comes with smoking, eating weed is by far the healthiest way to go. It's also cost efficient. The effects might take up to an hour to kick in (less if taken on an empty stomach) but once they do, you're in for a four to 12 hour ride.

Topically:

Creams and lotions make the most sense when treating muscle pain or tension. They are easy to make. Simply put cannabis leaves and buds into a bottle of surgical alcohol (available in any chemist). Leave the bottle in a dark place for 1-3 weeks, shaking vigorously every day (or more often if possible). After that, you're good to go!

Conclusion

There are two primary types of marijuana you should know about: Indica and Sativa. A thorough knowledge of these different types can help you to become a drug dealer, and perhaps be legal at it. It also must be kept in mind that marijuana use can be used for medical reasons on one hand, however on the other hand some people are allergic to it. Please ultimately consult with your medical physician or naturopathic doctor before you decide to partake of marijuana.

© 2011 by Ivan G.
