 
# The Prayer of Kings

#### Mike Connell

 Sermon Audio Transcripts

#### Smashwords Edition

#### Copyright 2012 Mike Connell Ministries

#### http://mikeconnellministries.com

Sermons | Collections | 中国

YouTube | Vimeo | Podcast

eBooks | Paperbacks

Transcripts | 成绩单

Facebook | Share

Donations

# The Prayer of Kings

When Kings Pray (1 of 2)  
No matter what I've gone through, no matter how hard it is, I know this; my life is in God's hands. I know that God is about His business of bringing me into my destiny, and I know whatever He dished up, whatever came my way, whatever troubles I had, whatever pain I had, whatever setbacks I had, he said it is working for me. It is helping me to grow into the fullness of what God wants me to be. It's bringing about in my life an increasing knowledge of Christ, an increasing awareness of His power, and His anointing in my life. That's a fantastic attitude to have isn't it aye? That's a faith attitude! That's the attitude of a king. It's a positive attitude based on the word of God.

The Prayer of Kings (2 of 2)  
How many know you're royalty, you're born into a royal family? When you and I give our lives to Jesus Christ, God puts His own spirit and DNA into us. We become changed on the inside through experiencing Christ. We become royalty, part of a kingly family, and of course we need to keep remembering who we are. That's why he keeps saying here you are, you are chosen, you're a generation chosen by God. You're not a nobody, a nothing. No matter what happened last year, no matter what struggles you had, what pressures, what difficulties, what challenges, today is a new day for God's chosen people. Today and this year is a year for great things for you. I can tell you for certain as you start this year, God has great things ahead for you. He has great things ahead for us. Whether they come about, of course, relies on us making good decisions, and connecting with Him.

## Audio

Audio: When Kings Pray (1 of 2).mp3  
Audio: The Prayer of Kings (2 of 2).mp3

## Notes

Notes: When Kings Pray (1 of 2)  
Notes: The Prayer of Kings (2 of 2) 

#  When Kings Pray (1 of 2)

## Sun 26 Dec 2010 « Back to Top

Notes» Audio» Website»

No matter what I've gone through, no matter how hard it is, I know this; my life is in God's hands. I know that God is about His business of bringing me into my destiny, and I know whatever He dished up, whatever came my way, whatever troubles I had, whatever pain I had, whatever setbacks I had, he said it is working for me. It is helping me to grow into the fullness of what God wants me to be. It's bringing about in my life an increasing knowledge of Christ, an increasing awareness of His power, and His anointing in my life. That's a fantastic attitude to have isn't it aye? That's a faith attitude! That's the attitude of a king. It's a positive attitude based on the word of God.

I want to share something called The Prayer of Kings. It's a prayer I want to put in your heart, that as you exit this year it'll be something that you'll begin to pray, and I'd love you just during the holidays to begin to get this prayer in your heart, a very simple prayer but it's a prayer concerning your coming year and concerning your future.

How many have found this last year a bit of a challenge aye? How many had some personal challenges? Yeah, they weren't very welcome were they, however the Bible says to welcome them as friends. I want to read you a scripture before we get started, then we'll read. In 2 Corinthians, Chapter 4, Verses 16 through to 18. It says: therefore we do not lose heart. How about that? See, we don't lose heart - in spite of any kind of difficulties. Now Paul is writing after having one of the most difficult ministry seasons in his life. He was under tremendous pressure. He felt resistance from everywhere, people had abandoned him, and he stood alone in Asia against all kinds of demonic powers, and all kinds of opposition and resistance. Yet having talked about how bad it is, then he ends up incredibly positively, and he doesn't deny that there were difficulties.

He said: I was so pressed down, I thought I was going to die. Now that's the apostle Paul saying he's had a bad time. He said he was so pressed down he was - this is what he says now. He says: but we don't lose heart! Even though the outward man is perishing, the inward man is renewed day by day. In other words he's saying: I might have gone through some difficulties. I had a couple of boats I took, and they sank unexpectedly. I spent two or three days in the water, treading water, holding onto driftwood. He said even though it was a bit hard, and my outer man got a bit of a bashing, he said nevertheless, I am stronger as a result of those things, than I was before. How about that? That's not a wimpy kind of response to life is it?

I hear so many people, and they go through troubles, and they get full of self pity. You can either be full of self pity, or full of faith. Here's where you get your faith. Look at this, look what it says here. It says: this light affliction which works is just for a moment, so he said: what I've gone through is only temporary. He says: it's working a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Now what he's saying is: no matter what I've gone through, no matter how hard it is, I know this; my life is in God's hands. I know that God is about His business of bringing me into my destiny, and I know whatever He dished up, whatever came my way, whatever troubles I had, whatever pain I had, whatever setbacks I had, he said it is working for me. It is helping me to grow into the fullness of what God wants me to be. It's bringing about in my life an increasing knowledge of Christ, an increasing awareness of His power, and His anointing in my life. That's a fantastic attitude to have isn't it aye? That's a faith attitude! That's the attitude of a king. It's a positive attitude based on the word of God.

But you notice it's got a condition attached? He says it depends all on where you're looking. He says while we look not at the things which are seen, for the things which are seen are temporary. But while we look at the things which are not seen, for the things which are not seen are eternal. He says the key to growing in times of difficulty and adversity is not to fix your eyes on the problems, not to fix your eyes on the things you can see, feel, taste, touch, experience. If you set your eyes on those things, then you will be overwhelmed with trouble and pressure and difficulty. He said: we set our eyes not on the things which are visible, but on things which are invisible. In other words, there are some things you see, but they're temporary. There are some things which cannot be seen, they're invisible to the naked eye, but they're real, they're there, they are eternal. It's the word of God, the promises of God, the goodness of God, the faithfulness of God. While I fix my eyes on those things he said, then whatever's happening for me is working for my good.

You can have a lot of bad experiences in life and become angry, hurt, grieved, bitter, fall out of church, fall out of relationships, fall out of God, all kinds of things can happen in your life. But I'll tell you what, it's all because of where you looked, when you were in the trouble. You look to the Lord, you look to His faithfulness, and you say: God, I don't care what I'm going through. No matter what it is, You will use it to grow me, develop me, bring me to another level. When I come through this, I'm going to be verified, I'm going to be like a diamond. See, it's all about where you fix your eyes, and he said: it's important we fix our eyes on things which are not seen. That's a crazy statement isn't it? Should be looking at things which are not seen? No, no, no, no \- he's talking the eyes of your heart, and where your focus is, where your attention is, set it on God and His promises and His word.

I want you to look with me over into 1 Chronicles, Chapter 4. I've called this The Prayer of a King, Prayer of Kings. I'd love us to get it in our spirit and it's about - you know this, you'll have heard it called something different, called Jabez Prayer. I want to put it in the context of what we've been looking at, on being kings, being kings. Interesting when Jesus was born, you know the religious world loves to look at it and see a child in a manger, but the announcement came: where is He, that was born king? Kings may be infants, but they're still a king. He was born a king. You were born into the kingdom of God, you're born a king, and a priest under God - got to learn how to grow up into it. Now Verse 9, 1 Chronicles 4; Jabez was more honourable than his brother, and his mother called his name Jabez. Jabez means sorrow, grief, pain. Imagine having a name like that. What's your name? Pain. [Laughter] Come again? Pain. Really? Pain. Why are you called Pain? I was a real pain to my mum when I was born you know, she was having a really hard and miserable time, and so all she could do was think to put that name on me.

Well people are called lots of things, but what people call you is not as important as what God calls you, and what He says you are. He says this man was more honourable, and his mother called his name Jabez, because I bore him in pain. So it doesn't tells us whether it's physical pain, or whether she was going through a tragedy, through a difficult season, could have been a time in the nation, where the nation was going through trauma, trouble, invasion by its enemies. Whatever it was, we know her personal experience was one of pain. It doesn't say anything about the father. It was normally the practice of the father to name the child, so the chances are, the father had died or was killed, or there'd been a break up in the marriage. But whatever happens, the mother who spoke over his life, spoke the word sorrow, sorrow and pain, and so that's not a great way to start life is it, with sorrows and pains, because often what happens is that when a mother carries a child, the emotions of the mother affect the child. What the mother carries in her spirit can be imparted to the child.

We know from the teachings on generational curses, how things which are around a mother, in carrying a child in the womb, the child will pick up. Interesting when Mary spoke, the child within Elizabeth's womb leapt. It responded to the prophetic voice, so children in a womb can respond to the prophetic voice. They can respond to the voice of adversity and circumstances and demonic spirits. They are sensitive and can respond, even though the mind isn't developed.

So this boy was birthed or came into the world surrounded by sorrow, but I want you to see the Holy Ghost identifies him and says some things about him. It says he was 'more honourable'. That word is the same word where we use the word glory; God, show us Your glory! Kebab, weight, goodness, glory, virtue, who you are. So when the Bible is referring to the glory of God, it's referring to the name, the nature of God. The Holy Ghost calls on this, and points this man's got a whole genealogy of all these names, and then right in the middle of it the Holy Ghost said stop! Wait, wait, wait. This man here called Sorrow was much more honourable, had much more glory. There was something about him, that makes this man stand out and be distinctive.

Then it explains exactly what it was, and it was his prayer, The Prayer of a King. He never let his circumstances determine what his future would be, but rather something in him rose up, and he got hold of the promises of God, and he rose up and he prayed a prayer, it's a fantastic prayer. It's The Prayer of a King. Here is the prayer. Jabez called on the God of Israel, so he was aware or had learnt, probably from his mother who'd taught him the word of God, that he had a legacy, an inheritance. He belonged to a nation singled out by God, to influence the world, influence the nations. He realised that as a descendant of Abraham, he was entitled to blessings from Abraham, and so faith rose in his heart, and this is his prayer. I call it The Prayer of a King, because notice what it is. He says: Oh God, bless me truly. Bless me in great abundance. Secondly, he said: enlarge my territory - that's kingly talk. Oh, let Your hand be with me, the power and the might and the hand of God on me, and keep me from evil that I would not cause pain. Now notice that statement, that I would not cause pain.

What he's saying is: at the beginning of my life there was difficulty, there was pain, there was adversity. I've even been named that, but he's saying God, I believe that You can take someone who's come out of pain, adversity, difficulty, trouble, hardship and You can raise them up, and their life does not reflect where they came from. Their life does not multiply the pains and sorrows. I've found so often what happens when people have grown up with broken families, and abuse and all kinds of things, they get infected with it in their heart and spirit, bitterness and anger and hurt and grief come in. What happens is, they then begin to multiply the sorrow. They do exactly what he prayed wouldn't happen. They cause other people to be in pain. In my own life, as I've become aware of areas of brokenness and lack and areas where I have not processed things in my own life, I realised to my grief, the pain it has caused those around me I love - great revelation that is. It's still a revelation.

So often we don't have relationships close enough where people can talk you honestly, and tell you the things you need to hear about your life. It costs you something to have that kind of relationship, where people know you well enough, and love you well enough, and you're open to them, and can trust them, and they can talk into your life, and share with you the things in your life that need to be adjusted, areas of immaturity, areas of brokenness, areas of lack, areas that are blind spots. Every one of us has blind spots. You have areas of your life you can't see - but believe me, everyone around you can see it. Anyone who gets married, realise you have lots of blind spots, and they all come out, and they're now visible spots when you get married. I think when you're about to get married, you're just completely blind altogether. [Laughter] I don't think you see too much at all, you're bedazzled by the beauty, and the hope of something together. Then afterwards you have to work it all out. When you work it all out, suddenly you see things you weren't aware of, and you see things in yourself because your wife tells you. [Laughter]

You see things in her, and you try to tell her. [Laughter] And so it goes on. You wonder what his prayer was, keep me that I might not cause pain, so he was aware that there was every possibility that his life would overflow, and hurt the people around him. It's very easy for that to happen. I think it'd be a great thing if we determined the coming year to cultivate relationships, where you invited someone to speak into you, and tell you things you need to hear. Wouldn't that be good? Well that's a very quiet response isn't it aye? [Laughter] Well carry on causing pain then. [Laughs] You know, it's much better actually to have a relationship, where people can tell you the truth. I tell you, you really distressed by it - someone says well look, we need to talk. Lyn good at that, we need to talk. [Laughter] Have you ever had Lyn beckon you, and say we need to talk? [Laughter] Well there'll be a bit of pain will follow that, that's for sure. [Laughter] There'll be some tears, and then you'll come right, and then you'll be very glad you had the talk - but anyway this was his prayer.

I don't want to cause pain. I don't want my life to multiply grief and sorrow. I want my life to be a blessing he said, so God, I want You to pour Your spirit on me. I want the blessing that came on Abraham to rest on me. You know the Bible says: we're redeemed from the curse, that's the curse of sorrow and sickness and failure and pain and grief. Galatians 3:14, that the blessing of Abraham would come on us, that we might receive that great and wonderful Holy Ghost, that would bring us to not only be blessed in our life, but become a blessing to others. God wants you this year to be a blessing to your family, a blessing to your community, a blessing to your workplace, not a pain. [Laughter] You know, quite good to get a report from people back on, well, what are they like to work with? Oh, he's a pain. [Laughter] Well you need feedback on that one don't you? [Laughs] Get someone to tell you why you're such a pain, what can you do to deal with it?

Here's his prayer, this is the bit I love, and this is the bit I want to just focus on for a few minutes. He said: that you would enlarge my territory. Now that is the prayer that kings pray. That is the prayer I'd love you to pray, to begin to start to get it into your prayer life day by day; Oh God, today bless me abundantly and enlarge my territory. That word enlarge is the same word that God spoke over Adam, when He said: go forth and multiply. It's not just hey, give me a bit more territory. He said: I want to be multiplied - so what is this territory? Well for him probably it was a piece of land, but for us your territory is your life, and the influence it brings on others. Your territory is your life, and the influence it brings on others, so your prayer then, oh God, pour out your spirit in abundance, bless me in every aspect of my life, and let my life grow greatly, and be an incredibly positive and great influence on those around me.

This coming year, as result of Bay City's generosity and giving, our influence in the world is about to multiply. I'm talking multiply here. In past years we've been able reach out to thousands upon thousands of people. Now through the media of television going through to the 10/40 Window [middle east and asia, where most of the worlds population live], we will multiply what has been done. That's the kind of thing I'm talking about, having real influence. See? But that also applies at a personal level as well. Your territory is invisible and visible. Your territory is - part of it's invisible, you can't see it; part of it's visible, you can see, and what you can see is the reflection of what is in the heart, what you can't see. The invisible part of your territory is your inward life, so the prayer to enlarge my territory means God, I want my inward life enlarged. What does that mean? It means I need change in my heart beliefs. I need to resolve wrong beliefs in my heart, and begin to let my heart be renewed to believe the word of God about me, and who I am, and what God's called me to do.

Some people struggle, and I've struggled over many years, in early life particularly over a sense of judgement in myself as being inferior and lacking. That judgement in the heart was a negative belief that limited what I could accomplish in life, so change in the exterior, or change in the outer life, required a change in a heart belief, and a repenting of the bitter roots in my heart. So to enlarge your territory means two things; one, it means dealing with the issues in your heart, the giants in your life that block your growth, and then looking how you can extend your influence in every area of your external life. So the invisible parts are your heart beliefs, your attitudes. If you have a victim - we've been on victim mentality recently. Kings don't have a victim mentality. They think positively, and they're proactive, so if you have victim mentality or thinking, you'll have to get rid of it, if you're going to expand your territory.

Your emotional area - some people are locked in their emotions. Well if you're going to expand your territory, break free, find out what locks up your emotions, what's got hold of your heart, what are the strongholds and giants, and face them. Get help. We'll run retreats next year, you would want to book in. Don't say oh, I had something on, I had a football match on that weekend. I'll say well too bad, I trust that you really grew and changed through your football match. [Laughter] But you know, in fact it won't help you. It's great entertainment, but entertainment can be a distraction from destiny. Never miss your destiny moments, by being distracted by entertainment. There are certain moments when God will meet with you, and those times you just need to be present. You've got to present yourself, and be ready for change. We kind of think you can just turn it on and off, but there are times when the spirit of God will move, for example, in a church He'll move in seasons on a particular area, and in that particular season, it's real easy to get to change, then He's moving on something else. You've got to remember that.

Okay, so there's one thing. So then the exterior area, well there's other things then you could do which are external, so what about your marriage? What could be built - how could your marriage grow this year? How could your family - how could you change or influence your family? How could you grow your finances, and develop your finances? Now to develop your finances requires inward change of thinking, followed by outward doing something different, so there's an internal part, there's an external part. What about being involved in serving? If you want your world to enlarge, why don't you choose to get involved in something you've never done before? Get involved and stretch out, to serve in a way you've never served before. That would enlarge your territory. You know when a stranger sits down beside you, you can stay in your own world, or you can say God, enlarge my territory to include him, and then reach out, show hospitality, friendship and see that person influenced.

So God can do this far more exceedingly abundantly than you think or ask, so here is your prayer: God, bless me! Oh, multiply Your blessings on me today. Let them come from heaven, and be in the earth. I'm blessed in my body. I'm blessed in my mind. I'm blessed in my marriage. I'm blessed in my family. Begin to start to get into your mouth the promises and words of God, and begin to shape your world in the invisible realm, and see things change in the practical realm. Begin to start to shift: what you say, what you believe, then what you do. There's some practical things you could do; one, pray consistently over that issue of enlarging. Write it down, underline it, God, that You would bless me indeed, and enlarge my territory. Enlarge my territory. Now the next thing you need to do is, clarify what it means for you to enlarge the territory. Is it a problem you need to overcome? Is it a bondage that holds you back? Is it an issue in your finance? Is it something that's been around your life for years, and you've never broken free of it? Is it something to do with the area of serving? Is it something in business? What is it that you - that's what I want to grow in?

Identify it, and then what do you need to do, for that to grow this year? What will you need to do, because you've got to boil it down to something you're going to do. If it doesn't come down to something you're going to do, you walk out the door, feel good, you'll be no different. Feeling good doesn't mean I've changed. Doing something different means I'm on the path to change, and we need to be careful we don't just enjoy messages, but just don't let it get into the heart, to change what we say and what we do. So make it specific, think what you need to do, set some new priorities. Now for example, you may find you're just spending hours and hours and hours on the television, or hours and hours on the internet, whatever. Well change the priority. Just cut it out, and do something different; invest in learning a new skill, invest in learning some new things that you've never learnt before, invest in yourself. Then you'll have more value to give, and your influence and territory will grow.

Finally, face your giants. All of us have got giants to face. Here's what I love. I just love - it's funny how people respond - I love this one, where Caleb says: the giants are bred for us! Isn't that good? I spoke that to someone a couple of weeks ago, and they said: bred as a giant for me? Really? Can I go on a fast? [Laughter] No, you've just got to deal with the internal things, so every one of us has got a giant. I wonder what has intimidated you, and kept you contained. If you were to just put a name on it, and begin to ponder and ask the Holy Spirit to show you how long that giant has been in that territory in your life, how long has it been ruling there? How long has it been walking up and down, defying you year after year after year, keeping you contained? And God is saying: take that giant, it's bred for you. Why don't you name that giant, and begin to think through the strategy to deal with it. Maybe you need prayer, maybe you need some counsel, maybe you need some help, maybe you need to fast, maybe you need to just shift the way you think. Maybe there's an issue to resolve, but face the giant, they're bred to enlarge you, to go somewhere else, and become increased in your influence.

I love the challenge that Caleb had right at the very end, when he got to 85, and you think flip, he's ready to lie down and retire, or go to a home and just watch movies and go on outings. This is what he said: You know the word I had in my heart 40 years ago when I went into the land, and you know the word I brought back. And you know the promise of God, and I've held that promise for 40 years, been a long 40 years, watching people die all around me in unbelief. He said: I got that promise in my heart, he said: now give me the mountain that has got the giants in it, that everyone else said 'you can't do it'. Give me that mountain - and God gave him what he requested. God gave Jabez what he requested, so what Jabez requested, obviously was in the heart of God, and that same thing is in the heart of God for you, and for me. I don't care what sorrows you've been through, what difficulties or tragedies you've had, and you may have a life that's marked by sorrow, and you may be a pain in the butt to lots of people, but it doesn't end there.

You can make a decision, God, bless me abundantly and enlarge my territory. My life's changing. My life is going to get better. My life is on the increase and improved. My influence is going to increase this year. Can you say that? Can you say that today? Come on, let's give the Lord a clap and thank Him today. [Applause] Father, we just thank You for all the challenges we've had last year, but they were all working a better way to glory for our lives, and in this year Lord, this is our prayer. My God, pour out blessing and abundance; my God, pour out grace and abundance; my God, enlarge our territory, enlarge our influence. Oh God, keep us from the evil one, keep us from the destructive strategies of the devil, surround us with Your angels, and my God, that You would keep us from all harm. In this coming year, enlarge our territory, enlarge our territory, enlarge our territory. This is The Prayer of Kings oh God, enlarge our territory, our influence, our capacity this year. Lord, we give You all the honour.

Come on, can we stand together shall we? Why don't we just as we're finishing this year, why don't we honour God in our singing and reach out today and pray that prayer, not only today but each day. My God, pour out blessing and abundance, enlarge my territory. Get your pen out before the end of the year and write down what will that mean in 2011, what is it you've got to face, what is it to change, what is it you've got to do, what is it you're going to commit to?

##  **Summary Notes**

Formatted ».htm#notes) Back to Top »

1. Introduction

2 Cor. 4:16-18  
"We do not look at things which are seen but at things which are not seen..."  
Many people in 2010 experienced pressure, pain, challenges, and unexpected difficulties.  
Each of us chooses how we respond – this prepares us for the next season.  
Pressure and pain can lead to great personal enlargement.  
Those things are "working for us" – to fashion, shape, and make one prepared.  
What do you focus upon? Pain or Possibilities?

2. Prayer of Kings

1 Chron. 4:9-10  
"Oh that you would bless me indeed and enlarge my territory ....."

(a) Jabez Prayer  
· Jabez = 3258 = Sorrow, Grief – named because of the sorrows around his birth.  
· Honourable = 3513 = Kabad, glory, to be weighty, substantial.  
· Jabez stood out from circumstances and people because of heart attitude.  
· Lord enlarge my territory; Lord expand my influence and dominion.  
· The prayer of a King – cry for God's favour in abundance!  
· Enlarge = 7235 = to multiply (Gen 1:22) to increase in abundance.  
· Kings long to expand their territory and influence – extend their Kingdom.

(b) Your Territory = your Life and Influence  
· Your territory is invisible (your heart and inner life) and visible (your influence).  
· Your territory includes {It belongs to you; your authority is recognisable; you have freedom to operate.  
· Invisible - Heart Visible - Skills  
Attitudes Family  
Emotions Relationships  
Hesitant Finance  
Service  
· Eph 3:20 "He is able to do more exceedingly abundantly than we ask or think"  
· What areas of your life will you determine to possess and enlarge territory?

(c) Simple Keys  
i) Pray consistently for enlarging territory – Mk 11:24  
ii) Clarify the areas of your life you desire to enlarge  
iii) What must you do to make these changes?  
iv) Set new priorities – develop new skills  
v) Accept new opportunities to serve e.g. Caleb – Josh 14:12  
vi) Fall your giants – "Bread for us" Num. 14:9 Caleb  
vii) Recognise and respond to Holy Spirit promptings  
e.g. Moses – Exd. 3:3 "I will turn aside and see ..."  
e.g. Philip - Acts 8:29 "Then the Spirit said to Philip .. so Philip ran .."

#  The Prayer of Kings (2 of 2)

## Sun 2nd Jan 2011 AM « Back to Top

Notes» Audio» Website»

How many know you're royalty, you're born into a royal family? When you and I give our lives to Jesus Christ, God puts His own spirit and DNA into us. We become changed on the inside through experiencing Christ. We become royalty, part of a kingly family, and of course we need to keep remembering who we are. That's why he keeps saying here you are, you are chosen, you're a generation chosen by God. You're not a nobody, a nothing. No matter what happened last year, no matter what struggles you had, what pressures, what difficulties, what challenges, today is a new day for God's chosen people. Today and this year is a year for great things for you. I can tell you for certain as you start this year, God has great things ahead for you. He has great things ahead for us. Whether they come about, of course, relies on us making good decisions, and connecting with Him.

I want you to open up your Bible with me in 1 Peter 2, Verse 9. I want to just start here, then we'll go back to where we were last week. I want to talk about - here it is - The Prayer of Kings. I want to do The Prayer of Kings, I want to look at particular prayer in the Old Testament, but let's just have a look at see our identity first of all in 1 Peter 2, Verse 9: But you, you are royal priesthood, chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness and into His marvellous light. And now you were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. We are the people of God. We are the people of God. Notice the key thing I want to bring in here you are the people of God, a royal priesthood.

How many know you're royalty, you're born into a royal family? When you and I give our lives to Jesus Christ, God puts His own spirit and DNA into us. We become changed on the inside through experiencing Christ. We become royalty, part of a kingly family, and of course we need to keep remembering who we are. That's why he keeps saying here you are, you are chosen, you're a generation chosen by God. You're not a nobody, a nothing. No matter what happened last year, no matter what struggles you had, what pressures, what difficulties, what challenges, today is a new day for God's chosen people. Today and this year is a year for great things for you. I can tell you for certain as you start this year, God has great things ahead for you. He has great things ahead for us. Whether they come about, of course, relies on us making good decisions, and connecting with Him.

So you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. So this year God has things for you to do. He has relationships for you to build. He has things for you to accomplish. He has giants for you to bring down. This year it's all out there - God has got many opportunities planned for you for this year and I love that. I love coming into a New Year, and we need to be continually reminded as we come into a New Year, who you are in Christ. You are a chosen generation, you are royalty who has access to God - here it is - you are a king, on assignment from heaven, in the earth. I want us during this year to have our minds set on who we are. You are kings, on assignment from heaven, in the earth. You are a king on assignment, a role to serve and advance the kingdom of God this year.

So the question is: what will advance this year, because of your efforts, and because of mine? I want you to turn with me in 1 Chronicles, Chapter 4. Our assignment is to make Jesus Christ known, make Jesus Christ known. You may think your assignment is to make a lot of money, but the purpose of making a lot of money is to make Christ known, to make Him known. Let's look in 1 Chronicles, and I want to pick up just two verses we're going to look at, and I want to share with you just five simple things out of those two verses. Here it is, it's a list of genealogy and it's going through a whole list of names. You could look through it and think it's boring, and turn over and say I'm bored, but then in the middle of Verse 9, suddenly the Holy Spirit stops, and draws attention to one particular person. In other words, not only was everyone significant, but one stood out from among everyone else. Now Jabez was more honourable. He was more weighty, there was something about him that was distinctive.

He was distinctive, and he stood out above all his brothers. His mother called his name Jabez, meaning pain or sorrow, saying because I bore him in pain - so her pregnancy no doubt was filled with some kind of sorrows and pains. There's no mention of the father; presumably the father died, was murdered or had an accident or something happened, but the mother carried this child, there was tremendous pain, and so she never got over it. She never handled her pain, so she put it on him. She labelled him pain or sorrow. Now it's not a very good way to start life is it, you're called a bit of a pain? You're an inconvenience. You arrive, you upset everything. We had our financial plan, and then suddenly my wife got pregnant and the plan was over, what a pain, you know? We weren't married and she had a baby and what a pain. I mean there's many, many ways you could put this out, but at the end of the day there was something of great grief and sorrow in the family at that time.

The thing that makes him stand out was, he was unwilling to stay in a place of pain. He was unwilling to stay in a place of sorrow. He was unwilling to stay in a place of negativity and defeat. The Bible says he was more honourable than all those around him, because he rose up and he dared to believe that God could take the adversity of his past, the failures and the pain and the grief, and do something in his life that would make him stand out and be distinctive. Now do you believe - that's what made him distinctive of course, was not only that he believed in his heart and rose up in faith, but he actually got what he asked for. It says God gave him what he asked for, so God must have liked his prayer.

I pray that this year, this will be the prayer on everyone's heart, and here's the prayer he prayed. He called on the God of Israel, oh, bless me indeed. God bless me abundantly. Every area of my life, I want to see Your manifest presence and blessing. Oh God, that You would enlarge my territory, increase my influence, give me influence that goes well beyond what I've ever had, multiply the extent of my territory. Oh God, that You would keep me from evil, Your hand would be with me, You would keep me from evil.

I want to just go through and pick several things in there, and this is the bit I like, he said: God granted him what he asked. God granted him what he asked, and I pray that this year that you will have things you'll ask God, and that not only will you ask God, that you'll break through in your prayer, and by the end of the year you'll be able to say and testify very boldly: hey, God gave me what I asked for this year! God gave me what I asked for. Jesus said: that's how you glorify God, by answered prayer. God is glorified when you have breakthroughs in prayer, and you see heaven come into the earth. That brings great honour to God. If we're going to bring honour to God, we need to see His supernatural provision come into the earth. See, this man here, he says God gave him something. He got hold of God, and God gave him something that he never had before.

I wonder if at the end of this year you will have things in your life you've never had before, because you dared to believe and rise up in prayer, aye? What a great thing. Have you got some things to pray for? We've got a season of prayer and fasting come up. I encourage you, before you even get into the three weeks of prayer and fasting, that you take time to identify what is it this year I want to believe God to break through in. Let me just give you a few things that he said, because obviously God liked his prayer. I want to share with you five things about this prayer. The first thing is, it's incredibly personal. Notice what he said, look, it seemed selfish didn't it? Oh bless ME, enlarge MY territory, Your hand with ME, keep ME from evil. Notice 'me' turns up four times there. Now you could say what an extremely selfish man, he's just praying for himself. No, in fact actually it's completely the opposite.

I have found an interesting thing, that when people have rejection in their heart, when we don't see ourselves as God sees us, when we don't agree with what God says - you're a son of the living God, you're a child of the living God - then our heart gets filled with unbelief, and we don't rise up. We can pray for the world. It's easy to pray for the world, you don't need faith to do that. You can pray for someone else to get blessed. It's a little bit easier to pray for someone else to get blessed, than to actually dare to believe in your heart, God desires to bless you personally. I believe many people do not pray, because in their heart they're so gripped with rejection and low esteem, they are filled with unbelief, and don't dare to believe God wants to bless you. Let's say it: God wants to bless me. In this year, God wants to bless me \- so what are you going to believe for? It's personal see, it's very personal.

He wants to bless me. He wants to bless me. Get it in your heart. This is a personal prayer. It's easy to pray for this one and that one, and pray for someone over there who needs help and whatever, and it's right for us to do that. That's called intercession, praying for others. But there's an area where you need to learn how to pray for ourself, that we could be increased in capacity, in territory, in influence, in favour, and presence of God. I want us at the beginning of this year as a church, to get it in our heart, this year God is going to bless ME. I believe if we've got five, six, seven, 100 people in this church, and God is blessing every one, the whole church has got to be blessed - let alone the community as well. So number one, notice the word 'me'. Without faith, you can't please God. There's got to be a part of our prayer life where we begin to believe and meditate on what God says about me, what God says about you, what God says about your positioning with Him.

You are accepted in the beloved. You have access to the throne of grace. If that gets into your heart, then when you stand and pray, it's not going to be prayers riddled with guilt and shame. It's going to be prayers - oh God, I come boldly into your presence. As a son of the living God, I stand before You, yielded to You. See, your prayer life changes when you believe that God wants to do something for you, so make it personal. So what are the heart issues that you need to break through? What are the beliefs, that hinder you believing God would do something for your life? I tell you what it is most of the time, it's because we prayed and had a disappointment. Then you prayed and had another disappointment, then you had another disappointment, then after a while you got to believe in your heart, well God doesn't really answer my prayers, but I know He answers other people's prayers, I'll pray for them.

No. Determine you'll move past your sorrows and pains and regrets. That's what this guy did. He refused to believe that no matter how bad things were, he refused to believe he couldn't have a great future. Your future is what you choose. It's not dependent on what someone else said or did. It depends on what you and I choose to do with ourselves this year, and the greatest person you can invest in is yourself, invest something in yourself this year. Invest in growth, invest in prayer, invest in your relationship with God. Start to invest in yourself this year, so that you don't stay limited where you are, but begin to grow and increase. So what areas do you want God to manifest some things in your life?

The second thing is: oh, that You would bless me, and not only bless me, indeed bless me in abundance! What he's saying is: God, I want Your presence, I want Your person, I want to know You, I want to experience wherever I am, I want Your blessing on my life. Joseph was a blessed man, and the Bible says: you could see the blessing on him, because everything he did came to life. When God's hand is on you, blessing you, things that you do have life in them. When God is pouring His blessing out over you, and it's manifested in the earth in a tangible way, it shows up at home, it shows up at work, it shows up in the community. It shows up in your relationships. When your life is in bondage, and restricted by fear or unbelief or other kinds of things, what happens is, there's a lack of flow from your life to others, so oh that God would bless me - because this is an Old Testament prayer in Galatians 3, 13 and 14, it tells us: Christ has redeemed us already from cursings, so that we can experience blessing, and get the Holy Ghost, so the blessing God has for you, is to be filled with His spirit, and that Holy Spirit reveals to you what is freely yours.

If you don't ask the Holy Spirit, you won't know what God freely says is yours, this year. 1 Corinthians, Chapter 2, says the Holy Ghost tells us and reveals to us the things freely given to us by God. Think about that. In Ephesians 1, Verse 3, it says now God has blessed us with every blessing in heavenly places, in Jesus Christ. That's a wonderful scripture, and people read it and say: isn't that nice. What he's saying is this; everything you have need of for a blessed life has already been given. You don't have to beg for it. That's the difference between that Old Testament prayer, and a New Testament position of a believer. We now are blessed because everything we have need of is available through relationship with Jesus Christ, and you and I have received the spirit of God. We are connected to Christ. We need to learn how to access the realm of heaven, the realm of faith, to be able to receive things God has for us.

He has already provided for every area of your life. The question is not whether God has blessed you or not. The Bible tells us, He's already made blessing available. The key is whether you can arise inside in faith, and access it through prayer and believing prayer, otherwise you end up - and here's one of the challenges around Jabez prayer. Remember it is from the Old Testament, they didn't have the Holy Spirit in them. They were crying for the blessing of God. You and I live in the day when we are already blessed - that's why you can get up everyday and say: I am blessed! [Sings] I am blessed every day of my life, I am blessed. When I wake up in the morning, when I lay my head to rest, I am blessed, I am blessed! - see, you can do that every day. Otherwise you wake up in the morning, say oh dear God, another day, what a hangover. I was up too late last night. [Laughter]

You choose what day you're going to have. You choose to believe God - I'm blessed. You know, be a great way to start every morning rising up, saying I'm blessed. Sing the song, I'm blessed. We'll sing it at the end if we can pick it up. Sue can hum it, you'll get it by the end of it I'm sure. It's such an easy song isn't it? I am blessed, I am blessed. Every day of my life I am blessed, when I wake up in the morning, when I lay my head to rest, I am blessed. I am blessed! Well now if you're blessed, a blessed person will behave and speak and act and think in certain ways. They'll speak and act like a blessed person, not a poor person see? So how can I get that overflow into my life? Well very simple; I need time in the presence of God, meditating in His provision. You meditate in the Word, you begin to picture it, roll it over in your mind and heart, beginning to embrace it, like you see it. Then you welcome it into your heart, you meditate on it - this is mine. I have this. Thank You Lord - until you begin to make it real in your life.

See, the things of heaven come into the earth when we meditate, and faith rises in our heart. Then it comes a point were suddenly it's a revelation to us, and it's ours. Then it begins to flow into our life, so without a life of prayer, you can't see blessing manifest. Prayer, then we've got to act like blessed people. So another aspect of it is, not just time in the presence and meditating in the word, it's beginning to declare it. Declare it. That's what that song is, it's a declaration song, and often Christians seem to have prayers that are always asking God for stuff. The Bible says: He knows what you need, He's already given it to you. Reach out and dare to believe it's yours. I am blessed! I am blessed! I am blessed! Oh, I am a blessed person. Who are you? You're a blessed person. Who am I? I'm a blessed person, oh I'm blessed. My God is with me. He is blessing me. Everything I put my hand to, God is with me. Even when I goof up, God is helping me - I even learn from the goof up, and become better. Oh, I can't lose! Come on, that's the kind of mentality to be thinking, otherwise you live scared of making a mistake.

God says the steps of a good man are ordered by the law. Though he fall over, the Lord lifts him up again. Aye? How about that? So why worry about falling over, because God's just going to lift you up again - if you dare to believe you're a blessed person. See, Righteous falls seven times, and the Lord lifts him up every time. In other words what he's saying is, no matter how many times you fall over in this coming year, God's just waiting there to pick you up. He wants you to be blessed. Ever seen kids trying to walk? They fall over all the time. They don't sort of sit there and say well this is hopeless, I'm staying down, I'm never getting up again. [Laughter] Here's the thing. All of you overcame that one! [Laughter] Except Ian's needed a bit of help over here [Laughter] but every one of us overcame that. Every one of us overcame it - think about that.

So think about every time you fall this year - and I'm sure there'll be mistakes and fall overs, here's the thing. Just acknowledge you've fallen. The worst thing is to be fallen over, and won't even admit you've fallen over. Everyone else can see it. Everyone else can see what's going on, and you're the last one to admit you've fallen over. You're eating the dust, it's all over you, and you can't see it. Hey listen, we need friends around to say: you fell over. [Laughter] And then say come on, get up. Get up, don't stay down. Whatever you do this year, don't stay down. You may have gotten down and stayed down a little last year, but don't stay down this year. I'm blessed, I'm getting up, I'm going forward in the presence and person of God, so what will you do this year, that'll increase the flow of God's blessing, that's the question. What will you do to walk conscious that God is with me, I'm a blessed person?

Here's the last couple of ones now. Notice he says enlarge my territory. That's about provision. See, the first one was personal, second one there was about presence, and now it's about provision - enlarge my territory. Jesus said the same thing, a similar kind of thing. He said: give me today my daily bread, give me what I need, so what his prayer was - enlarge my influence. Now one of the things about enlarging influence is, there's always a giant in the land. Now when the Bible talks about territory, it was a physical land they had, which God said was theirs. Unfortunately there were giants in it, and God says interesting things. He says in Exodus 23, He says: I'm going to drive the giants out of the land, hooray! He says a few minutes later, now you will drive the giants out of the land. Oh, I don't like that!

Now what He's saying is, little by little will I drive the giants out of the land. In other words, I have promised you territory, I promised you blessing, and there are giants, giants of fear, giants of doubt, giants of unbelief, giants of disappointment, giants of grief, giants of rejection - there are things to overcome if you want to expand your territory, expand your influence in this coming year. But He said - notice this - I've already achieved it for you. You have to arise, believe, and go and contend with it, and they'll fall over. Interesting when you read this story, that God sent in hornets in there. Now I hate wasps and bees of any kind - hornets are dreadful. I've been in a place where they had hornets. They're like a magnified wasp. I remember seeing hornets over in Fiji, with blimmin' great legs hanging down off them. They're just like flying terrors - so the Lord sent hornets in, to drive the giants out of the land.

Listen, whatever faces you, at the cross of Calvary Jesus defeated your giants. He calls you and I to arise up to the cross, see what He's done, bring to the cross those issues, and walk in the victory He's won for us. Oh my, what a great year this year - giants! So He said here's the thing is, God requires you participate. There's nothing passive in Christianity. If you want to see growth and enlargement this year, you can't be passive. You can't be passive. Let's not be passive. Let's make a decision - now here's what you need to do, set some goals. What is it you're going to accomplish? Set out a plan how you're going to do it, start to pray over it, and then look at then persevering until you can break through in that area. Quite simple isn't it aye? See, so I wonder what areas you want enlargement this year - God, that you would enlarge me.

Here's the thing that the Bible says in the New Testament. The Old Testament they wanted land; in the New Testament Jesus said this, He said: go into all the nations, preach the gospel, make disciples of nations for the church, the territory God has for every one of us, are people. People that come into your world, people that come into your area of influence, people in your work, people in your community, every person that comes in your field of influence, say: God, enlarge my territory to include that person. This year God's enlarging our territory to include millions of Muslims in Pakistan, but right here in Hastings He wants to enlarge our territory to include the people in your world, and the one who reaches them is you. Every person that comes in, God, give me access to their life. God, give me entrance to their life! Great or small, God, give me a doorway into their heart, to reach them and let them know they're loved, and I could show the love of Christ in a practical way to them. It might be just as simple as saying to them: how can I help you? What can I do for you? Is there any way I can help you, anyway I could show value on you? Just think about that this year, and increase your territory.

The last couple very simply that your hand, that's the power of God, might be with me; and the last one, that you would protect me, that you'd keep me from evil. Sin causes not only pain for us, but it causes pain for everyone else as well around us, so his prayer was God, I want to be blessed, I want blessing to flow in my life, and I'm positioning myself by my prayer in a place where You will bless me. God, I want to be enlarged. I want my influence to grow and increase. I want to have people this year, that have responded to my influence upon them. God, I want Your hand to be upon my life, I want to see Your power flowing. Listen, the Bible says: the gifts of the spirit are given to every person. If you're not flowing in it, ask yourself why. There's people here trained, and have trained, and continue to train. The big thing is whether you will stretch out and do something. You don't wait until you feel the power of God, you sometimes have just got to go step out and pray for people, see?

Father, we just thank You that this is a great year, a New Year. Father, I cry out our prayer is oh my God, that You would bless us, You would increase the blessing flow in our lives. It would flow like a river through us into our city, into our community, into our neighbourhoods, into the schools, into the hospitals, everywhere we go, everywhere we are! Give us territory. Give us influence on the lives of people, my God that the miracles of God be with us, my God that Your hand be upon us to keep us from demonic oppression, demonic assignments, and sins and temptations. My God, this year increase and enlarge us - and God grants their request. I'm believing it's going to happen this year. Why don't we stand and sing together that song: I am blessed! I am blessed! Oh I am blessed, yes, I am blessed. Every day of my life I am blessed. When I wake up in the morning, when I lay my head to rest, I am blessed, I am blessed.

Make it personal - I am blessed! Yes Lord, I am blessed. Every day of my life I am blessed, yeah! When I wake up in the morning and I lay my head to rest, I am blessed - one more time, declare it over people around you, you are blessed!

##  **Summary Notes**

Formatted ».htm#notes) Back to Top »

1. Introduction

1 Pet 2:9  
"You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own special people that you may proclaim the promises of Him ...."  
Last year was filled with challenges, pressures, opportunities – that is now over.  
God has new possibilities waiting for you in 2011.  
Tasks to accomplish, people to meet, relationships to establish – opportunities to serve.  
Peter reminds us who we are: Royal Priesthood – Kings with assignment to serve.  
You are a King on assignment – Make Christ Known.

2. The Prayer of Kings

1 Chron 4:9-10  
"Oh that you would bless me indeed, and enlarge my territory, that your hand would be with me, and that you would keep me from evil that I might not cause pain." So God granted him what he requested.  
Jabez stood out from his background and his generation.  
Prayer has power to open heaven and change your year, your destiny.  
Key characteristics of Jabez prayer.

(a) Personal  
· Notice how many times the word 'Me" appears – 4x  
· Heb 11:6 "without faith it is impossible to please God ...."  
· God has a purpose and destiny for you – he has plans for good for you.  
· Jabez arose above his past pain and rejection – trusted the goodness of God.  
· Make it personal! Rejection and sorrow are often roots of unbelief.  
· Whatever has happened God is good and desires to bless and enlarge you.  
· What heart issues, beliefs hinder you arising to believe God and see His promises manifest in your life.

(b) Presence and Person of God  
· V10 Oh that you would bless me indeed = bless in abundance.  
· Blessing = favour and prosperity in abundance upon life and relationships.  
· New Testament –  
Gal 3:13-14 "Redeemed ... so that blessing of Abraham come ..."  
Eph 1:3 "He has blessed us with every blessing in heavenly places ..."  
· You are blessed - Jesus has positioned you to walk in blessing.  
· Blessing is the overflow of intimacy with the Holy Spirit – reveals what is freely given.  
· How can you walk in and see blessing revealed?  
§ Time in the presence of God – Worship  
§ Meditation in the Word of God  
§ Decree and declare His Word over life, relationships and circumstances  
· What will you do in 2011 to increase the flow of blessing?

(c) Provision  
· V10 Enlarge my territory ...  
· Territory = land to be possessed by driving out the giants, dispossessing them.  
· There are always giants standing between you and God's provision.  
· Exod 23:30-31 "... I will drive them out ... you shall drive them out..."  
· God requires that we participate actively and not to be passive.  
· God promises to provide – our part is to take faith actions.  
\- Goals; Planning; Sowing; Persevering; Overcoming.  
· What areas do you desire enlargements in 2011?  
· What part must you play in co-operating with God?

(d) Power  
· V10 ... that your hand might be with me ....  
· Hand of God = Power of God manifested in tangible way.  
· = Person of God intervening and manifesting supernaturally  
· God desires to demonstrate His power – supernatural life  
· Eph 1:19 ... revelation .... of the exceeding greatness of His power to us who believe.  
· Biggest hindrance to power of God flowing is unbelief – "not me!"  
· All believers are called to experience and manifest supernatural life of God (1 Cor. 12:7)  
· Power in the New Testament is connected to evangelism – making Christ known (Acts 1:8)  
· What stretch will you take in 2011?

(e) Protection  
· V10 ... that you would keep me from evil ....  
· When participate in sin – others are hurt by our sin e.g. King David.  
· Demonic opposition and temptation are reality daily!  
· Mt 26:40 "Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation".  
· What areas are you vulnerable? – besetting sins?  
· What strategy will you form to overcome? – to resist?  
· 2011 - Year of arising as Kings in faith, in prayer, in action.  
Year of enlarging territory personally, locally, globally!

#### http://mikeconnellministries.com

Sermons | Collections | 中国

YouTube | Vimeo | Podcast

eBooks | Paperbacks

Transcripts | 成绩单

Facebook | Share

Donations
